# Clarity: A Cloud Based Deepfake Detection Platform

This report serves as one of two capstone projects required for the completion of my BSc Information (Electrical) Engineering. 
It is a paper-based design of a deepfake detection platform, thus, no physical implementation of the system was required. 

The rise of commonplace synthetic media is an emerging threat in the modern world. Rapidly advancing deep learning research is making it easier than ever before to generate hyper-realistic fake images and videos that are undetectable by the human eye. This paper describes the design of Clarity, an automated cloud based platform which uses machine learning to identify deepfakes on the internet. Clarity is designed with sustainability and security at its core to gain user trust and provide long-term support for deepfake detection. Its loosely coupled microservice back-end architecture makes the design scalable and flexible, while still maintaining a high overall performance with low latency. The system utilises industry standard MLOps principles to automate the machine learning pipeline and ensure reproducible, explainable, transparent, and secure detection models that accurately identify the full spectrum of deepfakes in the wild. Clarity’s use of the Google Cloud Platform ensures cost reductions due to its support of open-source software and its availability of efficient hardware for model training. Furthermore, it guarantees reduced carbon-footprint over manually deployed hardware by outsourcing computation, storage, and networking to low carbon emission grids. Monetization schemes for the system have been devised to ensure longevity and financial feasibility.

